Hey, Dad.
It's good to see you.
I love you.
So this is your spot.
Yeah, I love this place.
Any new music?
Yeah.
Well, I got one I'm really excited about.
Let's hear it.
Come on.
No.
We just got the foods here.
I got you the pancakes.
Come on.
All right, Dad.
I love you.
But if I let you hear something right now, you've got to chill.
This can't be like the last time.
Patrick, I'm your father.
I'll be good.
the game.
time that was way worse one more time you know what
Everybody, the church hope you had a wonderful Christmas season and happy new year to y'all.
That song, that video.
So the younger guy, he's the dude who actually wrote that song.
And then the older gentleman is actually his father, which I just think is incredible.
That just brings a smile.
So anyway, I thought it'd be a fun way to kick off the weekend, but welcome.
I wanna invite you to stand now because it is time to do some singing.
Here we go.
this time, we thank you for this place that we get to come and worship your name, Lord.
I just pray today that we will be reminded that there is no name that is higher than yours, that you reign above all the things that we experience here on earth, Jesus.
And so, would you be with us?
Would you open our hearts to whatever you have for us?
Would you be glorified in this place today?
Would you receive our praise as an offering to you?
We love you so much for this all in your powerful name.
Amen.
So good to sing with you guys.
You can take a seat.
My name is Alyssa Milligan and I attended the next event at Eagle Brook.
I felt a nudge to come to church because I really wanted more in my life after going through a rough patch.
My best friend was texting me every week to come to Eagle Brook and I finally took her up on the opportunity and I fell in love with it and felt I have to keep coming every single week.
I was ready for a next step.
I wasn't sure what it was, so I decided to attend a next event just to see what it was all about and what I could learn and how I can grow.
The event was very welcoming.
Everyone was very open, honest, transparent.
We were all eager to grow and learn in our faith.
I left the next event feeling super energized, positive, and feeling like I just accomplished something.
The five values of Eaglebrook really stood out to me and they have started to take such a meaningful position in my life and I want to continue to live out all five of those values.
For someone that's just starting out at Eaglebrook, next would be an amazing opportunity for them.
You come as you are, you're very welcomed, you find a new community, you just take one day at a time, you don't have to be perfect, it just takes a few steps.
I've been attending Eagle Brook now for about a year and a half.
The messages are really speaking to me every week.
It's just such a positive place to have a community backing you and that is why I chose to make coming to church every week a huge priority in my life.
Hey everyone and happy new year and welcome to Eagle Brook online.
So glad that you're joining us from wherever in the world that you might be watching.
My name is Jeff Dodge.
I'm the online campus pastor.
And we had some amazing Christmas services and then followed it up with our unplugged experience.
And if you missed either of those services, you got to go back and watch them.
You'll be glad that you did.
But for today, who doesn't love the beginning of a new year?
It feels like a natural time for us to think about the direction we want our lives to go.
We reflect on the year that we just had.
We set goals for the year to come, hoping that this is the year that we actually stick with them.
Maybe you're going to stick to your budget.
Maybe you're going to lose that weight.
You're going to break that bad habit.
You're going to grow in your faith.
Whatever it is for you, this could be your year.
But to have goals without making plans, I mean, that's basically just making a wish and blowing out the candles.
For us to actually live the life that we want to live, we need more than wishful thinking.
We need plans.
plans to change our habits because the person who runs 10 miles in one day isn't the one who loses the weight.
It's the person who walks a little bit more each day.
And as your church, we want to help you grow in your faith this year.
We are convinced that if you make following Jesus the highest priority in your life, it will give you the hope
peace and joy that we all long for.
It will connect you with the purpose that you were created for and it will make those changes that you want to see in your life a little bit more attainable.
So for everyone, one habit that would impact your life this year would be to simply make attending church a priority.
If you live near campus,
Go there.
If you can't make it or you're an online attender, come hang out with us online.
It will make a huge impact on your spiritual growth or maybe you're new to following Jesus.
Maybe you just made the decision over Christmas and if that's the case and you haven't already, you have to text the word begin to 77888.
We have free resources that we want to give you that will help you get started on your faith.
And maybe you've been attending Eagle Brook for a while and you want to help other people get connected.
Our next online small group session is right around the corner and could be a great next step for you to lead a group.
Or lastly, maybe you're a parent.
who wants to be more intentional with how you're raising your kids.
Whether they're toddlers or teenagers, we have an online experience that would help you start the year off strong.
It is a 14-day journey with each session containing practical wisdom that will help you become a more intentional and Christ-centered parent.
You can do that at your own pace.
Whether you want to lead a group or join the 14-day parent experience, head to eaglebrookchurch.com slash
And as you're doing that, here is Jason with today's message.
This week on Cabin Fever, a family escapes up north for the weekend.
Grandparents ready for quiet mornings.
Parents hoping for one peaceful getaway.
The newlyweds still in the honeymoon phase.
And then there's Sarah, the baby of the family, single, alone.
And wondering why she agreed to this.
So Sarah,
I was Trevor.
Wasn't it Travis?
Nope.
It was Trevor.
We broke up three years ago, Grandma.
So I'm sure he's doing great.
She can do better.
I always liked him.
I thought he was funny.
Yeah.
This weekend was supposed to be fun.
but they just keep talking about love and marriage.
I just wanted some hot cocoa.
You're gonna attract the perfect person for you.
And you never know where you're gonna meet.
We met at the petting zoo, and it was lovely.
That actually was not our first date.
Well, yeah, technically we first met at the petting zoo.
She just doesn't remember.
But I saw her, you know, she was with the llama.
Have you tried finding someone at a gym?
You could just walk into a Wells Fargo.
I've installed all of the dating apps on her phone.
And she uninstalled that.
Take some rent.
Yeah.
You know, for somebody so good with tech.
What's a dating app?
Data isn't great on those.
They keep talking about dating apps.
We had church potlucks.
Bless wiping.
Bless swiping.
Swiping.
Oh, that's good.
Hey, before I dive into the message, wanna celebrate what God did at our church this past Christmas, because it really is worth celebrating.
We had over 73,000 people attend in person.
That is the highest ever in the history of our church.
Online, we had over 19,000 devices.
That's just how we counted.
Obviously for Christmas, probably more than one person watching on many of those, but we count with devices.
So total attendance, 92,085.
And here's what excites us about that.
Yeah, go ahead.
Sorry, let's say one person.
I didn't want you to feel lonely on that one.
Here's what excites us about this.
This is over 90,000 people who heard a clear message about Jesus.
Over 90,000 people who heard the gospel, that the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Jesus Christ our Lord.
And we believe that that message, the gospel, is what changes people's lives and changes their hearts.
And so here's the number that we get really excited about.
661 decisions to follow Jesus Christ over Christmas.
My wife and I went on a walk a few days after Christmas and we were praying for those of you who put your faith in Jesus on that day.
And my wife was praying for God's protection around you and I was praying that your faith would
go deep, that it would be rooted and established, that it wouldn't just be something that you look back on a couple of years from now and go, yeah, I remember I prayed that prayer on Christmas, but it would be something that you would go, you know what, that's when a new relationship with Jesus started and my faith was rooted and established.
Maybe you're someone who prayed a prayer on Christmas, you put your faith in Jesus Christ, you just didn't get a chance to tell us about that, you can still do that.
Text the word begin to the number that you see behind me.
because we wanna come alongside you.
We wanna help you to have a faith that is rooted and established in Jesus Christ.
Today, we are starting a new series called Cabin Fever and we do have a little bit of that right now, don't we?
I mean, there was a day this week where I was like, I'm not going outside.
I'm just gonna stay inside.
It is way too cold.
We have viewing groups that meet in places like Fort Myers, Florida, Naples, Florida, Mesa, Arizona.
And I just wanna say to you, we hate you.
Because I'm up here going, I don't want to leave the house.
It really is that cool.
We get a little bit of cabin fever.
Today's message is titled, Logs on the Fire.
And it's all about dating.
When I asked my now wife, Sarah, the first time to go on a date, I called her from a Motorola flip phone.
Thing weighed like 10 pounds.
I was on my way to a blockbuster video.
to rent a movie, was driving by her house and use that as an opportunity to call.
Now, in my brain, here's what I thought the conversation sounded like.
She picked up the phone and said, hello, and I said, hey, is your last name Campbell's?
Cause you looking mm-mm good.
That's my best pickup line.
Okay.
I don't even know people eat Campbell's soup anymore, but I hope they do.
Cause that's just a great pickup line.
Now that's what I thought it sounded like.
In reality, here's what it actually sounded like.
She picked up the phone, hello, and I'm like, hi!
This is Jason, you know, voice cracking 17 year old, didn't go great.
I don't remember exactly what we talked about, but I do remember there was a Motorola flip phone and a blockbuster video involved.
Today, there is over 100 million people on dating apps like Hinge and Tinder.
And the way that Tinder works is that you scroll through a list of prospective people that you would be interested in, you swipe left if you're not interested, you swipe right if you are.
It's kind of like Amazon Prime.
You're like, eh, whatever, we'll give it a shot.
Now I'm not saying there's anything wrong with online dating.
In fact, I actually think online dating is a great tool.
I talk to people all the time who are married and they say we met online.
And it's a great way to find out people who share the same values that you do.
But I would argue that this generation seems to be the most confused generation in history when it comes to dating.
And the reason why I think it might be the most confused generation in history when it comes to dating is because it's also the most deceived generation in history when it comes to dating.
Just think about this for a second.
We have told a whole generation of kids, follow your heart,
How are you gonna make good decisions?
How are you gonna know who to date?
All you just follow your heart, you'll make great decisions that way.
We've told the whole generation of kids, you gotta find the one.
Who's that one person that's going to complete you?
We've told the whole generation, you need to live together before marriage to find out if you're gonna be good roommates.
You need to sleep together before marriage to find out if you're gonna be physically compatible, all of which are not true.
was watching a clip online of a guy who stepped up to the microphone to address a podcaster.
It was kind of an open mic sort of deal.
And he got up to this open mic and he said to the podcaster, he said, I have listened to every podcast you've put out over a year and a half.
I did everything that you have told me to do.
And it has ruined my life and ruined my relationships.
And as you can imagine, this podcaster was taken aback and he's like, what did I say that caused you to ruin lives and ruin relationships?
He said, you said that I should sleep with as many girls as possible, date as many girls as I can.
I did that and it ruined every relationship that I had.
And then he added these words.
He said, it was only when I turned to Jesus Christ that my life began to change for the better.
and the whole audience began to clap.
I want to say to each of you today that the way that the world has told you to date for the most part is wrong.
And I'm not saying that as somebody who has an arrogant opinion.
You know, my opinion is so important.
I'm saying that as someone who's read what the Bible says about dating, marriage, and relationship.
And so I want to take you today to what does the Bible say about dating, marriage, and relationships?
And what it has to say is not just for young adults,
If you're single here today and you're in your 40s, 50s, and 60s, I believe this is going to speak into your life.
If you are divorced or widowed, I believe that God can use this to guide you in this season.
And if you're a parent or a grandparent and your kids are coming to you and going, well, who should I date?
How should I date?
I'm hopeful that you'll have more to say to them than just, well, you'll kind of figure it out.
Cause that's part of the problem.
Part of the problem that young people are facing today is that many of them have not seen a healthy dating relationship.
Many of them have not seen a healthy marriage relationship.
So today I wanna take you to Ephesians chapter five and show you what does the Bible say about marriage.
Now you might think that's kind of odd.
Cause you're like, well, hold on a second.
Like why are you talking about marriage in a message on dating?
The reason why I wanna show you what the Bible says about marriage
is because the end goal of dating is to find someone you want to spend the rest of your life with.
The end goal of dating is to find a future spouse.
It's not to find yourself.
You don't need to use someone else to find yourself.
You don't need to toy with someone else's emotions in order to find your self.
The end goal of dating is to find someone to marry.
That doesn't mean
that you should talk about marriage on your second date.
Okay, I would not recommend doing that.
But here's what it does mean.
It means that you date with the end goal in mind.
Too many people today date flippantly.
I'm convinced of this.
Just because someone flirts with you doesn't mean you should go out with them.
Just because someone shows interest in you doesn't mean that you should date them.
But they're interested in me and that makes me feel so good.
And I want to be like, yeah, okay, that's great, but marriage is for life.
This is the second most important decision you will ever make in your life.
After whether or not to put your faith in Jesus Christ, who you marry is the second most important decision that you will ever make.
Don't date flippantly, date with the end goal in mind.
Here's what the Bible says about marriage and Ephesians chapter five.
It says, husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her.
If you are a woman and you're wondering, well, who should I date?
Look for this guy.
Look for someone who will love you as Jesus Christ loved the church and was willing to lay down his life for it.
That means he's not someone who's selfish, he's not focused on himself and self-centered, he's not pointing people to himself, he's pointing people to Jesus Christ.
Paul goes on in verse 32 and he says this, this, he's been talking about marriage is a profound mystery.
What is the mystery he's referring to?
He says, well, I'm talking about Christ in the church.
In other words, I'm not just talking about marriage, I'm actually talking about Christ in the church.
However, each one of you also must love his wife as he loves himself and the wife must respect her husband.
Why did God create marriage?
Why did God have the idea that a man would leave his father and mother and be united to his wife and the two would become one?
Why did God do that?
What's the point?
What's the purpose?
The point and the purpose is to point people to the love and the intimacy that Jesus Christ has for his church.
that marriage is a tangible way for us to see and to taste the love and the intimacy that God has.
That is the mystery that Paul is referring to.
But notice at the end what he said about wives.
He said, you must respect your husband.
Guys, you are looking for a woman, a wife, who will respect you.
Not just who you find attractive, not just who flirts with you.
You're looking for someone who will respect you.
In fact, if you are a guy or a girl and you're dating someone right now and you're wondering, well, should we get married?
Here's the question you ought to be asking.
Will we reflect the love of Jesus Christ better together or apart?
Will we be able to serve Jesus Christ better if we're together and married or if we're apart?
If you're looking at your relationship and you're going, you know what?
We will reflect the love of Jesus Christ better together.
We will be able to serve Jesus Christ better together.
Then you should get married.
But if you're looking at that question, you're going, I don't know.
I'm not sure we would serve Jesus better together.
I'm not sure I would reflect the love of Jesus better if I was in a relationship with that person.
Then you're better off being single.
Cause look at what the Bible says in 1 Corinthians chapter seven to people who are single.
Paul says this, if you do get married, it's not a sin.
That's good news, right?
For those of us who are married are like, okay, it's not going great, but it wasn't a sin.
He says, however, I'm trying to spare you the extra problems that come with it.
If you're married, don't look at your spouse right now.
But do you know what they are?
They're a problem.
They're a real problem, aren't they?
And I'll tell single people this.
I'll say, you know, they're kind of a problem.
And they'll look at me confused and they'll go, I thought he was gonna complete me.
No, that's a movie.
He's not going to complete you.
He'll completely leave his underwear on the bathroom floor six days in a row.
Here's what he says in the next verse.
He says an unmarried man.
can spend his time doing the Lord's work and thinking of how to please him.
But a married man can't do that so well.
He has to think about his earthly responsibilities and how to please his wife.
What I wanted you to see from these verses is how differently the Bible speaks about singleness than what we're used to in our culture.
If you listen to people in our culture talk about being single, it's almost like it's this death sentence.
Have you met someone yet?
Are you dating anyone yet?
You know, you go to grandma's house and she's like, are you in a relay?
He met somebody.
You're like, I gotta get through this season as quickly as possible.
If you're single today, I just want you to take a breath.
Jesus was single, Paul was single.
There's many benefits to being single.
You have the time to give God your undivided attention and to serve Him.
Paul even says this a few verses later.
He says, the person who marries does well and the person who doesn't marry does even better.
It's in the Bible.
I was like, I must have missed that verse before I got married.
Now I'm married.
I'm not against marriage.
I'm all for marriage.
I love when I hear people, you know, getting married, starting families.
That's a gift from God.
But what Paul is saying here is he's like, yeah, you did well if you got married, but if you're single in many ways, that can be even better.
Here's what I want you to see today.
Singleness isn't a time to despise, it is a time to embrace.
So I wanna show you two principles that I hope you build into your life before you start dating.
And here's the first one, don't follow your heart, follow godly wisdom.
I had my son had a basketball tournament, all day tournament down in Rosemont years ago.
And I was speaking here at church.
And so I drove down right afterwards and watched two of his games.
And afterwards I was just starving.
And so my kids were like, hey, let's stop and get fast food.
And I'm like, no, we're gonna save money.
We're gonna eat at home.
And then we stopped at a gas station.
And my son said, can we just get a snack?
And I was so hungry.
And so I never go get snacks.
I just don't think of going inside at a gas station.
But I was like, sure.
So I went inside, he went to the bathroom.
When he came back to the register, I was standing up there with two Italian sandwiches, Lunchables, Cheese Pringles, Twix Ice Cream.
My son was in shock.
My digestive system was in shock later on that night.
People do dumb stuff when they're hungry.
People do really dumb stuff when they're hungry for love.
Solomon, one of the wisest people who's ever lived, he said this, promise me, O women of Jerusalem,
not to awaken love until the time is right.
He says, slow down.
Don't date when you're hungry because people make bad decisions when they're hungry.
One of the mistakes that single people can frequently make is they move too quickly.
Two months after a breakup in a serious relationship, already dating someone else.
I'm like, whoa, slow down.
You haven't healed from the last one.
few months after a divorce, already in another relationship.
Slow down.
You haven't learned what you needed to learn from that previous relationship.
Have you seen the person that you're dating when they're stressed?
Have you seen them when they're angry?
Have you seen them when they're not at their best?
You need to see them in those kinds of environments.
Solomon said, don't awaken love until the time is right.
Here's what a lot of us do when we first meet someone.
We put on a pair of these.
rose-colored glasses.
So when you look at his work ethic, here's what you see.
And when your godly parents look at his work ethic, here's what they see.
When you look at his temper, here's what you see.
And when other people look at his temper, here's what they see.
It's rose-colored glasses.
Now studies have shown infatuation happens in every relationship and in fact it's impossible to not go through an infatuation stage.
But they've done studies on this and they've found that infatuation shuts down your brain.
You're not seeing clearly.
You're not thinking clearly.
That's why godly outside advice is so important.
Notice I said the word godly.
If your godly family members, if your godly friends are uncomfortable with your relationship, that ought to be a huge red flag.
Don't just listen to your heart.
Don't just follow your heart.
Follow wisdom.
Here's some wisdom for you in your life.
Dating is a time for discernment, not devotion.
Marriage is the opposite of that, by the way.
If you're married and you're looking around going, oh boy, I think I made the wrong decision, wish I would have married that person, you need to do everything you can to get rid of those thoughts.
You need to take those thoughts captive and make them obedient to Jesus Christ.
You need to focus on being committed and fulfilling the promise you made before God.
But dating is a time for discernment, especially early in the relationship.
What oftentimes happens to single people is we move towards devotion too quickly and we short change the discernment process.
If you become emotionally attached too quickly and you move too fast with your heart and with your emotions, it almost becomes impossible to make discerning decisions.
This is one of the reasons why I believe that God says, wait until marriage to have sex.
Because when you have sex with another person, you are becoming one, not just physically, but spiritually and emotionally.
And when you are that connected to another person, it becomes almost impossible to make discerning decisions regarding their character.
Proverbs 4.23.
Solomon says this, he says, above all else, above everything else, guard your heart,
for everything you do flows from it.
Don't follow your heart.
He says, guard your heart.
Are you doing that?
Are you guarding your heart?
Are you guarding the heart of the person that you're dating?
The person you're dating right now, that might not be your wife.
That might not be your future husband.
You don't want them to enter into a relationship with someone else someday with baggage from your relationship.
Guard their heart.
How do you guard a person's heart?
Well, first of all, you're honest.
If you're not feeling the relationship, if you don't see it going anywhere, just tell them that.
Be as kind as you can, but be as honest as you can.
Slow down.
There's a natural progression to emotions in relationships.
Don't pressure them into having sex.
If you're a guy and you're in a relationship right now and you are pressuring your girlfriend to have sex, I'm gonna say this to you directly.
You do not love her like you think you do.
You think that you love her, you're telling her, but I really love each other.
We should take it to the next level.
You are not loving her like Christ loved the church.
You are not laying down what you want and what you desire for the sake of what's better for her.
Don't follow your heart, follow godly wisdom.
I had a chance to sit down with some singles in our church this week to hear their wisdom.
And in this video, you're gonna see there's one of the couples that's dating each other.
The other ones are sitting by each other, but they're not actually dating each other.
They're single.
And you're gonna get to hear some wisdom from people in our church who are single and dating.
And what is that like?
I thought it was a really interesting conversation.
Take a look.
Well, thank you guys for being here.
I'm really excited about this conversation.
We're in a series of, you know, cabin fever, and it's all about relationships.
And this week has been about dating.
And I just thought it'd be really interesting to hear from people in our church who are single dating.
You guys are dating one another.
But just to hear, what is it like these days to be single, to be dating?
And what would you say to our church?
So we're going to start with this question.
What is the hardest part of dating?
I feel like we're all distracted.
I don't know.
Our attention is constantly being pulled.
so many different directions with politics and social media and it's hard to feel like you're having that human interaction.
It feels difficult to keep it real.
Today it feels like there's a lack of curiosity.
Like that word keeps coming back to me is people don't know how to be curious and ask good questions.
We can get all the information from people's social media or you can text and ask all these questions before you even go on a date and so it's like there's a lack of
curiosity, you get in front of a person, I'm like, you don't know what to ask.
When you're having, you know, conversations with people, I think that's better to have in person.
You know, when you've got your phone, you have all this time to kind of curate the perfect person that you want to be or present yourself to be.
And it's just not always reality.
How has your approach to dating changed over time?
You've probably had some experiences in dating.
Talk a little bit about some of the things that you've learned over the years, the wisdom you've gained.
I am learning that I'm a whole person because of Jesus, and no other person is gonna complete me the way that He does.
Like, I am me, and I feel really good about that.
I'm known by Him, and that is what matters most.
He's my first boyfriend, so I never was, like, officially dating anybody in high school, but it felt like very superficial.
So, like, now that we've been dating for so long, I actually get to experience life
with him and like, it just feels so much more real than in high school.
It was like, we're dating because you just think everyone's supposed to date.
You don't really want to date someone's potential like someone that you hope that they will become someday.
And then a lot of people, especially in Christian circles are looking for perfect, like the perfect, the one, the person, like perfection.
And so like, what's the in between there?
It's like the people who have really good patterns and they're seeking God and they're serving in the church.
So I've learned a lot about that in this season.
One of the interesting things I know about you guys is a lot of you serve in our church.
You have used your single years
to serve and to be a part of what God's doing through the church.
How has that impacted your singleness and your dating, do you think?
When our eyes are not on ourselves and we can look to other people and we stop thinking about what's lacking.
I think for me, being able to serve and be able to see that and be like, hey God, I see what you're doing and I wanna be a part of it.
And not that dating and marriage and having kids is a distraction, but it is a time consumer.
Yeah, I mean, Paul talks about that in Corinthians and he's like, if you're married, your attention's divided.
When you're single, you can be fully devoted to serving
How do you deal with loneliness in a healthy way?
Do you go through seasons where you feel a little lonely?
Like, how do you deal with that in a healthy and kind of God-honoring way?
I've got so many friends that are married and one of the first questions I always ask them is, like, hey, like, how do you deal with loneliness in your marriage?
Almost every single one of them has told me, like, marriage does not solve loneliness.
And the only thing that does is that relationship with God.
Like, you can't find that solution to loneliness in another person.
It can only be found in Jesus.
And for me, when I do have those days of loneliness, I'm like, oh, but this isn't something that's gonna be solved by getting into relationship, by getting into marriage, but it's gonna be solved by me getting into my Bible and getting into a relationship with our Lord and Savior.
Loneliness itself isn't inherently bad.
I feel like a lot of growth can come from just being alone and just being able to really figure out what is going on in your life and what are the things you need to work on and what are the things that kind of God is calling you.
to work towards.
We don't live together, so we do have a lot of time where we're alone.
And I would just say I try my best to use that as a time to get my Bible, maybe connect with some of my guy friends.
And then we can use that.
Then when we come together, our faith is stronger.
I just want to follow up real quick.
You said you don't live together.
So many people in our culture do before marriage.
Talk a little bit more about that.
It's a great boundary to have in a Christian dating relationship to not live together because then it just, that temptation is dwindled by so much, which has really been helpful for us.
How do you guys stay patient?
Maybe God's timeline is different than yours.
Maybe you want something and it's not happening.
How have you dealt with that where you've had to kind of wait on God?
Remembering that God has a plan for me
whether that's marriage, whether it's not, that's his plan, and that's the best for me.
What would you say to other singles in our church?
If you had a chance to speak to singles, what would you want to say to them?
Enjoy the space, definitely.
Allow yourself to really hone in on your God-given abilities and the things that God has gifted you in your life.
Your life doesn't start when you start dating somebody.
It doesn't start when you get married.
live your life now, you have so much freedom.
So much freedom.
And you just get to, you can hang out with your friends and you get to serve a church and you're in this season for a reason.
You're gonna miss it if you're looking so far down the road.
God has not forgotten you.
I think it can be really easy to feel that way, but he sees you, he knows you, he loves you, and he has a plan for you, whatever that is.
And so I think just to be reminded that he sees you.
Worst case scenarios say like you don't find someone, you don't get married, like you get to do your life with Jesus and like you get to spend your life serving Him and you're going to get to heaven someday and you're going to look at God and get to talk about all those things that you got to do here on earth and see all the things that God was doing that you got to be a part of.
In these times I always cling to my favorite verse which is Ephesians 3 20 and I'm just always reminded that God can do a measurely more.
than we can ask or imagine.
And his plan is greater than we even know.
And so he can just blow our expectations out of the water.
And it doesn't even have to do with our dating life, but in your personal life, in your family, in all areas of your life.
And I've seen him show up in those areas.
And I can trust that and know that because he's shown up time and time again.
Thank you guys for your time and wisdom.
I'm just so proud of each of you.
Like when I hear your stories and how you're faithfully serving God and even just knowing you and how many of you guys are using your gifts and how God is using your life right now in the powerful ways that He uses you on Wednesday nights at students and on the weekends.
And my prayer for our church and our singles in our church is that they would begin to use their time that way as well.
And they would find that they can trust God in this season and that He's gonna use other gifts in this season.
So thanks for your time.
There's some amazing young people in our church who are following wisdom.
Second principle that I hope you'll build into your life is this, become the person you wanna date.
Become the person that you want to date.
If you want to date someone who's godly, become godly.
If you wanna date someone who's generous, become generous yourself.
You will never attract what you are not.
If you're like, but I want this person to be, is that you?
you won't attract a person that you are not.
In fact, a person's past is the best predictor of their future.
An honest single person will often become an honest married person.
A single person who is generous will often become a married person who is generous, but the opposite is also true.
An unhappy single person usually becomes an unhappy married person.
A hot-tempered single person becomes a hot-tempered married person.
We tend to think that marriage is going to eliminate habits.
It actually accentuates them.
Oftentimes the best predictor of a person's future is their past behavior.
It's why I say to single people, pay attention to patterns and not just potential.
You heard Kelsey talk about that on the video.
It's so true.
Don't date for potential, date for patterns.
Potential is, well, he said he'd go to church with me.
That's potential.
Pattern is, he goes now, he's committed to God.
Too many people are dating for potential and they are ignoring patterns in their life.
Now does that mean that a person can't change?
Well no, of course not.
People change all the time.
But God is the one who changes them, not us.
I wanna show you this verse from Proverbs.
It says, charm is deceptive and beauty is fleeting.
but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised.
Now this verse was written to women, but I think it a principle applies to men as well, and the point is beauty is fleeting.
It doesn't last.
In fact, beauty in and of itself is subjective.
In the 16th century, pale skin and double chins were considered attractive.
They would look at us tanning and dieting and going, why are you making yourself look worse?
The ancient Greeks
found unibrow's to be particularly attractive.
NBA player Anthony Davis is like, hey, hey.
We're all the single Greek ladies at, right?
But my point is that beauty is subjective.
It doesn't last.
It's fleeting.
Does that mean that you shouldn't be attracted to the person that you're dating?
No, of course not.
You should be attracted.
But I hope your attraction is more than just skin deep.
What are some of the characteristics to look for?
Look for someone who's humble.
Look for someone who's honest.
Look for someone who is disciplined.
Look for someone who's self-controlled.
Alcohol, anger, drugs, sex, marriage killers.
Talked to couples all the time whose marriage didn't end the way that they hoped it would.
You start asking some questions and talking to them and praying for them.
And here's what you find often, alcohol, anger, drugs, sex.
One of those was involved.
How self-controlled is this person that you're dating?
Are they emotionally steady?
Are they emotionally steady or are they just kind of way up and down?
Are they spiritually steady or are they spiritually up and down?
People will ask me this question.
Should a believer date a non-believer?
And the answer is no.
Here's why I say that.
The Bible says this.
Do not be yoked together with an unbeliever.
A yoke was a piece of farm equipment used to bring two animals together for the purpose of plowing a field.
You would never yoke together a donkey and an ox, because they're gonna pull you in different directions.
It's the same with a believer and an unbeliever.
You get married and all of a sudden you're like, oh, one of them goes, let's get up and go to church.
The other one's like, no, let's sleep in.
One of them says, you know, we should send our kids on that winter retreat for youth group.
And the other one goes, well, they got a tournament that weekend.
They got practice.
One of them says, let's read the Bible, let's pray.
The other one's like, no, it's not.
One of them says, we should tithe 10% to give back to God's work in this world.
And the other one goes, you've got to be kidding me.
A believer and an unbeliever are gonna constantly pull themselves in different directions.
What I always say to single people is this, run to Jesus.
Run towards Jesus.
Spend your single years running towards Him, serving Him, loving Him, obeying Him.
And if at some point, as you are running towards Jesus Christ, you look to your left, or you look to your right, and you see someone who's running right alongside you, not who's way back here somewhere, but someone right alongside you, that is the person that you turn to.
And you say, is your last name Campbell's?
Because you are looking mm-mm good.
Let's pray together as we close.
Lord, I pray for that single person in our church right now who feels as if you've forgotten them.
Remind them, God, of what a season this is in their life to embrace.
And what a powerful season this is, God, for them to use the talents and the gifts and the skills that you've given them to serve you.
God, I pray that they would find such joy and such enjoyment in being used by you to serve and to do work that's gonna reach other people for Christ.
God, I pray for those who are in a dating relationship right now that you would give them wisdom and discernment.
I pray for purity.
God, I pray for honesty.
And God, I pray that they would sharpen one another to run towards Jesus to become more fully devoted to you.
God, I pray for anyone here who's divorced or widowed, single and doesn't want to be.
God made they experience your love and presence in their life.
Maybe they just sense your comfort and your peace, help them to just be settled God and to trust you in the plans that you have for their life right now.
And God, if we're married and have kids, Lord marriage can be really hard.
I pray that we would still date our spouse, that we would still find times of fun with our spouse and that we would love one another as Christ loves the church, that we would be willing to lay down our life.
And God, I pray for a husband here if there's something that he needs to lay down for the sake of his wife.
And I pray for a wife here who needs to encourage and respect her husband in a new, fresh way.
God, would you give us wisdom?
Would you give us guidance?
And we thank you for marriage, God.
We thank you for the visible symbol that allows us to taste and to see the love that you have for your church and for your people.
For all these things in Jesus' name, amen.
Next weekend, we're gonna talk about sex.
It's gonna be great.
We'll see you then.